Many AI systems are not just a single
machine learning model running
a prediction service, but instead
involves a pipeline of multiple steps.
So what are machine learning pipelines and
how do you build monitoring systems for
that?
Let's learn about that in this video.
Let's continue with our speech
recognition example, you've seen how
a speech recognition system may take as
input audio and I'll put a transcript.
The way that speech recognition is
typically implemented on mobile apps is
not like this.
But instead is a slightly
more complex pipeline
where the audio is fed to
a module called a VAD or
a voice activity detection module whose
job it is to see if anyone is speaking.
And only if the VAD module,
the voice activity detection module,
thinks someone is speaking, does it
then bother to pass the audio on to
a speech recognition system whose job
it is to then generate the transcript.
And the reason we use a VAD module
is because if the speech recognition
system runs in the cloud,
you don't want to stream more audio
than you have to to the cloud.
And the reason we use a voice activity
detection or VAD module is because if,
say your speech recognition
system runs in the cloud,
you don't want to stream more bandwidth
than you have to to your cloud server.
And so the voice activity detection
module looks at the long stream
of audio on your cell phone and clips or
shortens the audio to just a part
where someone is talking and
streams only that to the cloud server
to perform the speech recognition.
So this is an example of a machine
learning pipeline where there is one step
usually done by learning algorithm as well
to decide if someone is talking or not.
And then the second step also
done by a learning algorithm to
generate the text transcript.
When you have two learning algorithms,
one thus learn to detect when
someone's talking and
one does learn to transcribe speech.
When you have two such
modules working together,
changes to the first module may affect the
performance of the second module as well.
For example, let's say that because of the
way a new cell phone's microphone works,
the VAD module ends up clipping
the audio differently.
Maybe it leaves more silence
at the start or end or
less silence at the start or end and
thus if the VAD's output changes,
that will cause the speech
recognition systems input to change.
And that could cause degraded performance
of the speech recognition system.
Let's look at an example
involving user profiles.
Maybe I've used the data such as
clickstream data showing what users
are clicking on.
And this can be used to build a user
profile that tries to capture
key attributes or
key characteristics of a user.
For example,
I once built user profiles that would
try to explain many attributes of users,
including whether or not the user seemed
to own a car because this would help
us decide if it was worth trying to
offer car insurance office to that user.
And so whether the user owns
a car could be yes or no or
unknown or
maybe other final gradations than these.
And the typical way that the user profile
is built is with a learning algorithm to
try to predict if this user owns a car.
This type of user profile, which can have
a very long list of predicted attributes,
can then be fed to a recommender system,
another learning algorithm that then takes
this understanding of the user to try
to generate product recommendations.
Now, if something about
the clickstream data changes,
maybe this input distribution changes,
then maybe over time
if we lose our ability to figure
out if a user owns a car,
then the percentage of
the unknown tag here may go up.
And because the user
profiles output changes,
the input to the recommender
system now changes and
this might affect the quality
of the product recommendations.
When you have a machine
learning pipelines,
these cascading effects in the pipeline
can be complex to keep track of.
But if the percentage of unknown labels
does go up, this could be something that
you want to be alerted to so that you can
update the recommender system if needed to
make sure you continue to generate
high quality product recommendations.
So when building these complex
machine learning pipelines,
which can have machine
learning based components or
non machine learning based
components throughout the pipeline,
I find it useful to brainstorm metrics to
monitor that can detect changes including
concept drift, all data driven or both,
and multiple stages of the pipeline.
So metrics to monitor
include software metrics, for
perhaps each of the components
in the pipeline, or perhaps for
the overall pipeline as a whole,
as well as input metrics and
potentially output metrics for
each of the components of the pipeline.
And by brainstorming metrics associated
with individual components of
the pipeline as well, this could help
you spot problems such as the voice
activity detection system of putting
longer or shorter audio clears over time.
Or the user profile system suddenly
having more unknown attributes for
whether the user owns a car and
thereby alert you to changes in
the data that may require you to
take action to maintain the model.
But the principle that you saw in the last
video of brainstorm all the things
that could go wrong, including things
that could go wrong with individual
components of the pipeline and
design metrics to track those.
That principle still applies only now
you're looking at multiple components in
the pipeline.
Finally, how quickly does data change?
The rate at which data changes is
very problem dependent, for example,
let's say you built to face recognition
system, then the rate at which
people's appearances changes
usually isn't that fast.
People's hairstyles and clothing does
change with fashion changes and as cameras
get better, we've been getting higher and
higher resolution pictures of people
over time, but for the most part, people's
appearances don't change that much.
But there are sometimes things that
can change very quickly as well,
such as if a factory gets a new batch of
material for how they make cell phones and
so all the cell phones start
to change in appearance.
So some applications will have data that
changes over the time scale of months or
even years and
some applications with data that could
suddenly change in a matter of minutes.
Speaking in very broad generalities,
I find that on average user data
generally changes relatively slowly.
If you run a consumer facing business
with a very large numbers of users,
then it is quite rare for
millions of users to all suddenly change
their behavior all at the same time.
And so user data,
if you've a large number of users,
will usually change relatively slowly.
There are a few exceptions, of course,
COVID-19 being one of them where a shock
to society actually cause a lot of
people's behavior that all
change at the same time.
And if you look at web search traffic,
you will see trends, maybe a holiday or
a new movie and people start searching for
something new that just became popular.
So there are exceptions, but on average,
if you have a very large group of users,
there are only a few forces that can
simultaneously change the behavior of
a lot of people all at the same time.
In contrast, if you work on a B2B or
business to business application,
I find it enterprise data or business
data can shift quite quickly because
the factory making cellphones may
suddenly decide to use a new coating for
their cell phones and suddenly
the entire data set changes because
the cell phones suddenly
all look different.
But if you're providing a machine
learning system to a company,
then sometimes if the CEO of that
company decides to change the way that
business operates,
all of that data can shift very quickly.
I know that these two bullets
are me speaking in generalities and
there are certain exceptions to both
of these, but maybe this will give you
a way of thinking about how quickly your
data is likely to change or not change.
So that's it.
Congratulations on making it to
the end of this first weeks videos.
I hope you also take a look at
the practice quizzes, which will let you
practice all of these concepts and
make sure you deeply understand them.
And if you want,
you can also take a look at this week's
optional programming exercise which will
let you deploy a machine learning
model on your own computer.
And I also look forward to seeing you
in next week's videos where we'll
dive together much more deeply into the
modeling part of the full cycle of machine
learning project.
I look forward to seeing you next week.